the Sun beating down on tropical waters
powers the weather systems of the globe
moisture evaporates from the warming
ocean and rises to create great storms
the winds generated out at sea
sweep inland across the continent
as they travel across the Sahara they
create the biggest of all sandstorms
blowing sand halfway around the world to
fertilize the Amazon jungle
winds blowing across the Indian Ocean
collect moisture and sweep northwards
towards the Himalayas as the air rises
so it cools
the water it carries condenses into
clouds and then falls as a life-giving
rains of the monsoon so air currents
powered by the Sun carry wet air to the
middle of continents
without water there could be no life but
its distribution over the land is far
from even
deserts cover one-third of the land
surface and they're growing bigger every
year